#summary how to contacting the mailing list
#sidebar v4l4jSideBar

If you encountered a bug / crash while using v4l4j, you need to install the debugging version of v4l4j as explained below before. 

= Install debug version of v4l4j =
*First, if you have already installed v4l4j then uninstall it*, otherwise the previous jar file & libraries (without debug statements) may take precedence over the new ones. Then, download the latest version of v4l4j from svn (see [SourceInstall here for more info]), and compile v4l4j in debug mode with `ant clean all-debug`. Install it with `sudo ant install`.

= Mailing list =
The v4l4j mailing list is available at http://groups.google.com/group/v4l4j . You have the option to join the list if you want to get updates delivered to your email address. Otherwise, you have to keep checking the web page to read new posts. If you have a question which is not mentioned on this page, search the mailing list first to make sure it has no been answered already. If it has not, then go ahead and post your question. The email alias of the v4l4j mailing list (where you should send your posts) is v4l4j AT googlegroups DOT com .

Feedback is is greatly appreciated to expand the list of platforms and video devices v4l4j has been successfully tested with. Feedback, issues and queries can be emailed to the [http://groups.google.com/group/v4l4j v4l4j mailing list] along with a description of what went wrong (or right) and what hardware you run v4l4j on. Before posting, check the [Troubleshooting troubleshooting] page for more information.