#summary how to build and install v4l4j from source on Intel platforms
#sidebar v4l4jSideBar

This page explains how to download v4l4j's source code, compile it and install it.

= Quick install guide =
  * Either download the latest stable tarball from [http://code.google.com/p/v4l4j/downloads/list Downloads tab] above, or checkout the code from Subversion using
{{{
svn co http://v4l4j.googlecode.com/svn/v4l4j/trunk v4l4j
}}}
  * Install build pre-requisites:
    * Sun JDK or OpenJDK (version 6 or up),
    * libjpeg-turbo (or libjpeg if libjpeg-turbo is unavailable) *and its header files*,
    * development tools (gcc, make) & header files, and
    * Apache ant 
  * Set the `JDK_HOME` environment variable point to where the JDK is installed. You can also edit `JDK_HOME` at the top of `v4l4j/src/Makefile`.
  * Compile and install with `cd v4l4j && ant clean all && sudo ant install`


If anything goes wrong or for more info on each step, read on. Otherwise, jump to [TestingV4l4j the testing section].

=Download=
Choose one of the following method to download v4l4j:
 * From source: The latest stable version of v4l4j is available as a tar archive from the [http://code.google.com/p/v4l4j/downloads/list Downloads tab].
 * Latest SVN snapshot: the latest snapshot of v4l4j can be downloaded using:
{{{
svn co http://v4l4j.googlecode.com/svn/v4l4j/trunk v4l4j
}}}

=Requirements=
v4l4j requires the following:
 * a supported V4L video source (webcam, capture card, tuner card). 
 * Sun JAVA JDK 1.6 or OpenJDK6 (it wont compile with earlier versions and it *must* be a JDK !!!). Install the JDK somewhere and note the location.
 * the development files of libjpeg, as well as libjpeg itself. It is recommended to use libjpeg-turbo if available.
 * make, gcc and Apache Ant (to build the classes and JNI library).

In Ubuntu Precise 12.04 (and later), use:
{{{
sudo apt-get install libjpeg-turbo8-dev openjdk-6-jdk build-essential ant
}}}

In Debian and Ubuntu prior to Precise, these can be installed with:
{{{
sudo apt-get install libjpeg-dev openjdk-6-jdk build-essential ant
}}}


On Mandriva 2010, use:
{{{
sudo urpmi make ant libjpeg-devel gcc
}}}

=Build=
First, make sure that you have all the dependencies installed (see previous [SourceInstall#Requirements requirements] paragraph). To compile v4l4j, run `ant all` in the v4l4j top-level directory. This will first compile the libvideo shared library and the JNI library libv4l4j.so. It will then compile the java classes and pack them in a JAR file. Both the JNI library libv4l4j.so and the JAR file v4l4j.jar are copied in the top-level directory. libvideo is NOT copied in the top-level directory and remains in libvideo/ .
If you get this error:
{{{
v4l4j_FrameGrabber.c:25:17: error: jni.h: No such file or directory
}}}
the JDK_HOME environment variable is not set or does not point to a valid JDK. Set it to the directory where you previously installed the JDK and try again.
For example, on Mandriva, use `JDK_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java ant all`

If you get this error:
{{{
v4l4j_FrameGrabber.c:27:21: error: jpeglib.h: No such file or directory
}}}
you have not installed the development files on libjpeg. See the previous paragraph on how to fix this.

The JavaDoc can be generated with `ant javadoc` and is located in doc/.

=Installing=
v4l4j can be installed by:
 * running `sudo ant install`. This will copy libvideo's shared library in /usr/lib , the JNI library libv4l4j.so in /usr/lib/jni and v4l4j's JAR file in /usr/share/java. Any of these paths can be changed by modifying the right property in build.properties .
 * Make sure you run `sudo ldconfig` so libvideo's shared library is added to the cache.

You can later on uninstall v4l4j using `sudo ant uninstall`


Once you have successfully installed v4l4j, head to [TestingV4l4j this page] to test your v4l4j installation.